Alright! In this video, we are gonna go
through a bug I noticed and this
commit is gonna be a little bit out
of sequence because I did get several
commits ahead. But I wanna show you
what's going on here. I kind of found
it by mistake. It was really easy
to overlook because we set up CircleCI
and we're doing continuing integration
build which is good, but let's take a
look at CircleCI here. I have it up on
the screen and we are getting a green
build. Everything is looking great except
right here. You notice Tests run zero,
Failures is zero, Errors zero and Skipped zero. Our tests are not actually running.
We are building, we're compiling.
Everything's going happy but our
tests are not actually running. It's
due to it kind of a simple but very
important issue. What I've done is
we'll step through what's happening.
It's a real easy fix but I wanted to
point this out and also let you know
that I'm putting this video a little bit
out of sequence but I am following
what's going on here. When I get to this
one, I did create an issue inside of the
sfg-pet-clinic application saying that
the JUnit 5 tests are not running. What
happened was the JUnit team actually
has gone through and submitted their
Surefire provider to Maven, to the Maven team.
It is now part of the Surefire
plugin so that has actually been
migrated in. For whatever reason,
these two are not happily playing
together. If you explicitly call them in.
I'm not gonna dig in and figure out
why. But the what happened is the
Surefire by default now picks up the
JUnit Surefire Provider. Let's come
over to the project. This
previously was how JUnit recommended
configuring Maven. When I went through
and developed the course, this was it.
I think I went in and upgraded to the
maven-surefire-plugin version 2.22.0
which was released I think in
June if, I remember right,
in the research as I was doing for this. So
it's like barely a month
month and a half old since it was
released. In that, the JUnit team
actually provided this so by default the
Surefire plugin is going to support it.
I'm gonna show you what's happening
here. If I come in and run the build.
I'm just doing verify which will compile
and run the test. We can see that runs
really quick because no tests are
actually running so it does buzz right
through the tests. At first glance, if
you're not really paying attention, you
can see BUILD SUCCESS. Everything went
great. But the problem here again you can
see zero zero zero. So not what we want.
It's because of this dependency. If I
come in and remove this explicit
dependency on the
junit-platform-surefire-provider because this is now in
that version of the Surefire plugin. If
I get rid of that, and now if I run it,
we're gonna see that the tests take a
little bit longer to run because we're
actually gonna be running the tests.
We're gonna get a little more log
chatter. Again this was really easy
to overlook. It was an accident on my
part because the JUnit tests are running
fine from the IDE and then now we can
see more chatter in the log, which means
that the tests are actually running
because we are actually bringing up the
Spring Context doing more stuff. It's
taking a little bit longer. And now, we
can see that the build finished. We can
see that the tests are actually running
so now I have 16 tests actually ran
and thankfully zero failures and zero
errors and zero skipped, which is exactly
what I would wanted to see. So it was an
oversight on my part but that's kind of
how things are evolving. As I grab the
latest plugin of Surefire, just a recent
change. So sometimes you need to be aware
of that. What I'm gonna do is go
ahead and
commit this.
I'm gonna grab that commit
message that is number 71 so let's go and close
Closes #71. I'm gonna go ahead
and commit and push that up. Again
there's something to be aware of. The
Maven itself is very stable so not a lot
of changes happen. JUnit 5 has been
out for some time and the build tools are
starting to catch up so the Maven team, I
mean that Maven is out there. It's
extremely stable so not a lot of
enhancements are being done to it. So
actually it's almost been nine months
since JUnit was released and now
we're seeing formal support for it
inside that Maven Surefire plugin.
Now I wanna point out here on line 133,
you still need to explicitly declare
that the maven-surefire-plugin is in
Maven by default. You do get that for
free when you just bring in Maven. But
you are gonna be getting an older
version of that. I don't think it's
officially in. So you do need to declare
that explicitly so you do get the JUnit
5 support. So the configuration just
changed. We're not doing that JUnit
provider dependency within the plugin
definition, All we need to do is declare
it so that we do get that proper version.
At the time of recording this, 2.22.0
is the latest release of the Surefire
plugin. I'm sure there will be a future
one so just be sure that you're running
on 2.22.0 or higher. At some point in
time, Maven is gonna come out with
another release and this plugin will get
provided and you won't need to do that.
But I expect that's gonna happen
further down the road with the Maven
guys. Finally, let's jump over to
CircleCI and come over back to Chrome.
Now let's take a look at my Jobs. So
we can see here's my commit. You can see
the commit message there so let's take a
look at that. We'll come down here
and remember there's a couple of
dependencies here. Just a recap. Maven now
we need to do the install
skip test for the dependent projects.
This is gonna be the dependency to go
offline. Probably could combine those and
then finally let's take a look at the
integration test which is actually
running our tests. Let's just scroll
down to the bottom of this. We can see
there's more log chatter there. This
is what we wanted to see. Now our
tests are actually running. We can see
that 16 tests ran, zero failures, zero
errors and zero skips. So exactly what we
wanted and again we're getting
BUILD SUCCESS. So our build is in the
green. As a bonus, our tests are
actually running now. Okay, in the video, I
said I wasn't sure if that made it into
an actual Maven release as far
as a Surefire plugin. I wanna bring
up, we have Maven 3.5.4 that was released
on June 21st in 2018. That was just a
couple of months ago from the time
recording. About three months ago I guess.
Looking up at that, I did trace down.
Let's see here. Find that Surefire plugin. Here we
can see the Surefire plug in and that is
the 2.20.1. So I actually want one
release further than we've specified in
our POM. Again, that is in Maven 3.5.4.
You can see here, they've only had
one other release in 2018 and then just
a handful of releases in 2017. So Maven
is pretty stable. There's not a lot of
releases that come out. Now what this
means for us is if you've installed
Maven 3.5.4 coming back over here, you
would be able to omit this. Specifically
calling for that, that version of the
Surefire plugin so you'd be able to
omit that and JUnit tests would run.
But I do wanna point out a couple of things
here. We do have a Maven Wrapper
implemented in our project so you can
call that when you're doing build
operations but that is on previous
release. That is on 3.5.3, not 3.5.4 which
we need for that plugin to be included.
And so that it would be one thing. But
then another concern that I wanna
point out is
CircleCI. We are using Maven from an
image that they are providing and I'm
not not really sure what that is.  I
know it's a version of three. But if
we're right now, in the immediate future
it's best to just include that
dependency because if you do not, bring
back the POM here.
Bring back the right POM. I edit. If
you do not include this, you will be on a
previous release of the maven-surefire-plugin.
That does not have the JUnit
support built-in and you would need to
extend that out. But just be aware
because I have an older version of Maven
installed on my local machine. I'm not quite sure
how old it is but probably time for me
to upgrade for my command-line version.
And then IntelliJ typically default
behavior is probably gonna be using
the Maven Wrapper if that's found in the
project or you can specify a specific
Maven installation that you wanna use.
But just be aware of the different Maven
versions that could be in play in
something like this so you could have
one installed, you could have a Maven
Wrapper and then on your CI server, you
could have a third version involved.
So the JUnit 5 support inside of Maven
is very very fresh. So be aware of that.
The official most recent release of
Maven, it does have it included so you
could admit it. But if you decide to do
that on your own project be careful as
far as what Maven version you're running.